# IOT-MINI-PROJECT
The objective of this project is to create a sound level and intensity meter using Arduino UNO Board through which we can measure the intensity of the surrounding sound. Condenser microphones combine precision with stability and reliability, making them ideal for use with a decibel meter.Because the
diaphragm of the microphone responds to changes in air pressure caused by sound waves, this device is also known as an SPL (Sound Pressure Level) Meter. Decibel meters are commonly used in studies to identify various types of noise pollution, particularly industrial, environmental, mining, and aircraft noise. This do-it-yourself project is useful for measuring the sound intensity.
                              A sound level meter (also called sound pressure level meter (SPL)) is used for acoustic measurements. It is commonly a hand-held instrument with a microphone. The best type of microphone for sound level meters is the condenser microphone, which combines precision with stability and reliability. The diaphragm of the microphone responds to changes in air pressure caused by sound waves. That is why the instrument is sometimes referred to as a sound pressure level meter (SPL). This movement of the diaphragm, i.e. The sound pressure (unit Pascal, Pa), is converted into an electrical signal(unit volt, V). While describing sound in terms of sound pressure, a logarithmic conversion is usually applied and the sound pressure level is stated instead, in decibels (dB), with 0 dB SPL equal to 20 micro pascals.
                              A microphone is distinguishable by the voltage value produced when a known, constant root mean square sound pressure is applied. This is known as microphone sensitivity. The instrument needs to know the sensitivity of the particular microphone being used. When extremely high volume is detected red led will glow indicating alert.
